README.md, before:

# lita-keyword-arguments

**lita-keyword-arguments** is an extension for [Lita](https://www.lita.io/) that extracts keyword arguments from messages in the style of command line flags.

## Installation

Add lita-keyword-arguments to your Lita plugin's gemspec:

``` ruby
spec.add_runtime_dependency "lita-keyword-arguments"
```

## Usage

Define keyword arguments for a route using the `kwargs` option. The value should be a hash, mapping keywords to a hash detailing the rules about that keyword.

When the route matches, the response object passed to the handler method will have the `:kwargs` key in its `extensions` attribute populated with the parsed keyword argument values.

Example:

``` ruby
class MyHandler < Lita::Handler
  route(
    /^my_command/,
    :callback
    command: true,
    kwargs: {
      foo: {},
      bar: {
        short: "b",
        default: "unset"
      },
      verbose: {
        short: "v",
        boolean: true
      }
    }
  )

  def callback(response)
    # response.extensions[:kwargs] will be populated with a hash of keywords and their values.
  end
end
```

The above `:kwargs` hash would make lita-keyword-arguments recognize the following in messages:

```
[--foo VALUE] [-b | --bar VALUE] [-v | --verbose | --no-verbose]
```

The `:bar` keyword be set to the string "unset" if no value was provided in the message.


The possible keys for each keyword argument's specification are:

* `:short` - A single letter to use for the short flag. Invoked with a single preceeding dash. For example: "-f".
* `:boolean` - The kwarg represents a boolean and does not have an argument. Set to true by providing the flag. Set to false by providing the long version of the flag, prefixing the keyword with "no-". For example: "--no-verbose".
* `:default` - A default value to give the keyword argument if the flag is not provided in the message.

The long flag (e.g. --foo) is automatically created from the key.

Example messages and their resulting hashes:

``` ruby
# Lita: my_command -b hello
{ bar: "hello" }

# Lita: my_command --foo baz
{ foo: "baz", bar: "unset" }

# Lita: my_command -v
{ bar: "unset", verbose: true }

# Lita: my_command --no-verbose
{ bar: "unset", verbose: false }
```

## License

[MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Commit message:

Complete instruction
I lost about half of hour, cause I forgot to require extension in my handler

README.md, after:

# lita-keyword-arguments

**lita-keyword-arguments** is an extension for [Lita](https://www.lita.io/) that extracts keyword arguments from messages in the style of command line flags.

## Installation

Add lita-keyword-arguments to your Lita plugin's gemspec:

``` ruby
spec.add_runtime_dependency "lita-keyword-arguments"
```

Require it in your Lita plugin's source:

``` ruby
require "lita-keyword-arguments"
```

## Usage

Define keyword arguments for a route using the `kwargs` option. The value should be a hash, mapping keywords to a hash detailing the rules about that keyword.

When the route matches, the response object passed to the handler method will have the `:kwargs` key in its `extensions` attribute populated with the parsed keyword argument values.

Example:

``` ruby
class MyHandler < Lita::Handler
  route(
    /^my_command/,
    :callback
    command: true,
    kwargs: {
      foo: {},
      bar: {
        short: "b",
        default: "unset"
      },
      verbose: {
        short: "v",
        boolean: true
      }
    }
  )

  def callback(response)
    # response.extensions[:kwargs] will be populated with a hash of keywords and their values.
  end
end
```

The above `:kwargs` hash would make lita-keyword-arguments recognize the following in messages:

```
[--foo VALUE] [-b | --bar VALUE] [-v | --verbose | --no-verbose]
```

The `:bar` keyword be set to the string "unset" if no value was provided in the message.


The possible keys for each keyword argument's specification are:

* `:short` - A single letter to use for the short flag. Invoked with a single preceeding dash. For example: "-f".
* `:boolean` - The kwarg represents a boolean and does not have an argument. Set to true by providing the flag. Set to false by providing the long version of the flag, prefixing the keyword with "no-". For example: "--no-verbose".
* `:default` - A default value to give the keyword argument if the flag is not provided in the message.

The long flag (e.g. --foo) is automatically created from the key.

Example messages and their resulting hashes:

``` ruby
# Lita: my_command -b hello
{ bar: "hello" }

# Lita: my_command --foo baz
{ foo: "baz", bar: "unset" }

# Lita: my_command -v
{ bar: "unset", verbose: true }

# Lita: my_command --no-verbose
{ bar: "unset", verbose: false }
```

## License

[MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
